# ABCMusicGen

ABCMusicGen is a program which procedural generates music based on provided input data using a random forest. The process begins with a program called Maestro which converts midi songs into an ASCII format known as ABC notation. Four files are imported representing four instruments: drums, bass, lute and clarinet. An entire song is represented within one line of data and the following is done to the convert ABC notation into a meaningful data set for ML algorithms. The initial values for a line of data are the tempo, followed by a one-hot representation of the timing, key, and personally assigned setting, mood, and environment. The ASCII document is then searched and a dictionary created for each unique note found. Every note is then represented as a one-hot value corresponding to the dictionary key and the data set of one-hot notes is iteratively built beginning with the drums, followed by the bass, followed by the lute, followed by the clarinet. With this master dataset of each song built we can now procedural generate new songs. The initial step is to create a seed of tempo, timing, key, setting, mood, and environment followed by three notes in one-hot format. The master data set is refined to the first three notes and trained by a random forest. The random forest then classifies the outcome of the seed to create the 4th note. This note is then added to the seed and the process is repeated for a given number of notes for each instrument. The output of each instrument is then converted back into the appropriate ASCII format and saved into a file which can then be used by Maestro and saved as an mp3. 

The final steps to this project are converting 1000+ songs to the four instrument ASCII format and train the data using a recurrent neural network rather than a random forest. 
